I need to be able to offer you this great resource.
I spent a couple of days really crafting this to make sure it could be really helpful for my students.
So one of the biggest questions I get is how do I build a portfolio.
I have classes and lessons that go in more detail about that but I wanted to provide you guys with a
template a portfolio building template when various sizes so you can at least have a framework to get
started with building your portfolio and this would be a PDL based portfolio for sending to clients
for applying to jobs whatever it is you need a PDA based portfolio for.
So if you look at the resource files I provide you you're going to have this file system.
I have this in two different sizes.
We have a horizontal presentation and a vertical presentation.
They both have their benefits depends on what kind of work you do and how your photos are working.
What orientation you want to go for.
And also I'm happy to announce that I have this and both A4 size so European sizes Asian sizes basically
the whole world uses this measurement system and then for the United States for this.
For those who use inches I have a eight and a half by eleven template as well.
So two different sizes depending on where you are in the world and two different orientations vertical
and horizontal.
So I wanted to talk a little bit about how to use the template.
If you've taken the InDesign basic lessons and you'll be right at home you're going to be able to to
really move around this template without any issues.
I also provided an example PDA.
So you can kind of see how I adapted this template and grabbed a couple of different layout pages to
craft something a little more custom.
I'm seeing kind of see how I've used that in this example just kind of scroll through this.
I have a PDA where you'll be able to access this and see how I've used some of the premade layouts to
be able to craft a portfolio.
So let's open one of these.
In the example let's do a horizontal version and let's stick with the A4 horizontal size.
We're going to go ahead and open this up.
And this is a packaged and designed file we studied that in the basic and design lessons and so you
have the links here to all the photos that are used in this case there's only one photo you have document
fonts which you have rubato.
This is from Google fonts.
Make sure you check the license it's free for personal use so you could just check out the license on
that.
And that is the only font I used throughout the entire piece and you can get it on Google fonts or you
can install it directly from the template files.
And lastly is a two different files the iron D.D. would be the file that you would open.
That's the InDesign file the IDM L is kind of a more universal format that you can open it up.
It's kind of more of that universal document so if you have an older version of Adobe in design this
would be kind of the file that you would use if you don't have a current up to date version.
Let's go ahead.
I have the 2020 version so let's go ahead and open it up and here's the basic template I got to go and
zoom out because the all the page layout options you have to go ahead Start with page one and it's got
some basic instructions on page one but I figured a video might be a little bit easier.
So moving pages around I'm going to go up to my pages tab and we can go ahead and move any of these
around.
So how do you use this portfolio builder.
What I'd like to do is go through all the different layouts to see kind of what particular case study
might match with a certain layout.
Of course all these can customize you can move this over and make it go bleed or however you want to
customize it but there are just some basic layouts that I think are personally effective when displaying
different case studies and graphic design projects.
So let's say I want to use this one right here.
This is the photo overlap layout.
It's the eighth layout.
Let's say I want to start with that page for my first case study.
I can just drag this page all the way up to the top make that my first page.
And same goes for the other ones I can even duplicate.
Let's say I want to have two of those in a row.
I can right click duplicate spread and now have page one and page two and you can customize all this
is just a header so I can either say this is my first case study and swap that out with information.
So let's say I want to change the color so I don't really like this color for my headers or I want to
use a different color for each one and my portfolio for each case study.
I decided to go with a different header color so that when people were scrolling through the PDA if
they'd be able to identify what pages went with what.
Case Study.
But let's say you want to have them all change the same.
I'm going to go over to my colors watches my swatches panels.
Go ahead drag this out and I have something called branded color.
So this could transfer over and your template.
I'm just going to double click this branded color and I'm going to change it to any old color.
Let's say kind of this darker blue click OK and this is global so that swatch is on all of the headers
and also all of the type.
So let me go ahead and change that again so you can see
so I noticed that changed the topic.
Also all of the headers as well so you can kind of change that globally.
You don't have to sit there and change it on each page.
That's what's so nice about having these swatches assigned to specific objects.
Let's say I want to drag this photo right in and just drag it right in it populates I can right click.
Good a fitting good fill frame proportionately.
Or however you want to fit it and you can go ahead and do your photo of course we covered a lot of this
in my InDesign basic life's lessons where you can double click the photo and crop it within the frame
or just click the frame wants to change the frame size as you could see for my example there are so
many different varieties of layouts here that she can use.
And I find these layouts fairly effective and it's going to depend on your project type and how many
photos you have what layout might work out best.
I like to have a variety of layouts in my PDA presentation so that they're not the same layout over
and over you're switching it up maybe you have a photo on the right and then you have a photo on the
left on the next page.
Just trying to keep her PDA portfolio interesting as people look through the pages and remember not
to make it too long.
Try to keep it you know under 15 pages if possible because that's a whole lot of work for people to
look through they may never get all the way to the bottom.
So keeping it with your only your best work maybe pick three to six different case studies that she
can have pick out your best work only all that other smaller work you can put that on the side or make
a gallery page at the very end with some kind of random selected work instead of featuring a whole page
on some of those.
So there's some quick tips and hopefully you'll enjoy this portfolio building template.
I spent a lot of time on it making sure you had both a vertical and horizontal version and came up with
some what I thought were really good layouts but you can customize it make it your own.
I can't wait to see your PDA portfolios and actions that can land some of that client work and start
to get some jobs.